foreign
and I've been asked to spend a little
bit of time with you this afternoon
talking about
scaling hyper growth technology
companies and in particular
I need to emphasize that my experience
is specifically with scaling
B2B hyper growth technology companies a
little bit about myself I've had the
rare privilege now of working for three
hyper growth technology companies I
started back in the early 2000s with a
company called VMware and this is back
in the days when people didn't quite
accept this idea that a virtual machine
could be as good as a physical machine
let alone better that they wouldn't just
end up virtualizing their server
infrastructure but one day
that would virtualize their data centers
they would virtualize absolutely
everything and it would lead to the next
big revolution in technology which was
obviously the emergence of the public
cloud and so back in 2011 I got the rare
opportunity
to go and work for a company called
Amazon web services as they were
starting to set up their business here
in apj and I spent the next eight years
running around Asia Pacific and Japan
and then spending some time in the US
thinking about how we could bring the
public the promise of the public Cloud
to customers all over the world we saw a
tremendous amount of growth and then
suddenly
three years ago
I I was running the AWS business across
all of Asia Pacific and Japan we had
revenues in the many billions of dollars
I had thousands of people working on my
team
and I realized that none of that was
making me happy in any way that actually
I'm much more interested in building
businesses than I am in running
businesses I'm not really interested at
all in running businesses and so I
stepped out of Amazon web services and I
said look if I accept this idea that I'm
at my happiest when I'm in a serviced
office
how do I get back into a serviced office
and go and spend time with a company
that really needs my skill set because
my skill set is a very very specific
thing this is what I know how to do I
know how to scale at a very very high
speed a large go to market organizations
particularly in Asia Pacific and so I
thought okay well what's the recipe
what does a a pre-growth uh high
potential technology company look like
is there a formula that I'm looking
that'll predict that kind of success and
it turns out there is right turns out
you can you can have a pretty good idea
about the the size of an opportunity and
the potential rate of growth of a
technology company if you look at just a
few things the first thing you want to
look at obviously is the tan is uh is
the term for data bricks which is
effectively the entire term around data
think
ETL and machine learning and bi and data
warehousing and streaming and governance
is that a big total addressable market
and obviously the answer is yes and so
the next question you ask yourself is is
this Market
needing disruption is it a particularly
inefficient Market is it a particularly
messy market and again in the case of
data
the answer is absolutely I mean
customers data architectures today are
an incredible mess they're unbelievably
complex they silos of of architecture
they have massive amounts of legacy and
so that absolutely ticked that box the
next thing though you need to ask
yourself
is is there a technology that I can work
with
that's not just disruptive but is it on
the right side of History the one thing
I've learned in the time that I've been
selling technology and building out go
to market organizations across apj there
is no point pushing the ball uphill
there really isn't you have to make as
Jeff Bezos used to say at Amazon you
have to embrace the Tailwinds of
Technology you have to be doing
something where the ball is rolling
downhill and when you are absolutely on
the right side of History all of the
companies I've worked at VMware Amazon
web services and now I hope databricks
they would have been successful with or
without me there was an inevitability
customers were going to virtualize their
data centers people were going to
consume technology as a utility and it's
that inevitability that you want to
start to position yourself in and then
the final thing
do you have a growth mindset do your
Founders have a growth mindset do the
executive teams inside your
organizations think that one day
you will be a really really significant
company you know again I think about the
databricks experience
we've raised over three billion dollars
in funding our CEO talks about the idea
that he's going to take the company
public uh one raise at a time and we
take that money and we use it to build
out a global organization we have uh we
have now a um a team of over 4 000 data
bricks folks right around the world and
as far as we're concerned it's really
just the beginning and so when I started
to look at those things I joined
databricks and I thought let's have
another go at building out a go to
market organization across apj we were a
small group of folks three years ago
when I started and I assure you we're a
lot bigger now and so if you think about
these three Journeys and you think okay
well in that career that I've had
working in these organizations and
helping scale these organizations were
there any particular things that I
learned
that might be useful to you if you're
looking to do something similar now or
hopefully in the future
and when I look back at the career and I
look at various points on my career I
suppose it started when um myself and
three other people started up the VMware
business in Australia and we started to
talk to customers about building uh
about building virtualized data centers
and the key thing that I learned as part
of that experience was that the
commercial models that you choose to
build and offer to your customers
not only Define the way that you will
think about go to market but similarly
you need to marry your go to market
efforts two specific commercial
structures that that you as SAS
companies decide to offer your customers
so let's think about some examples there
at VMware really early on we said we're
going to price based on the physical
CPUs that our customers choose to run
VMware on that made us a hugely
transactional business I'm going to run
it on five servers I'm going to buy
licenses for the CPUs inside of those
servers if I need to buy some more
servers I'm going to call Ed I'm going
to go and buy some more CPUs
it also constrained our growth hugely
because we couldn't grow any faster than
the rate at which our customers were
choosing to buy physical servers and
install VMware on them and so we changed
all of that we said what if we moved to
some notion of Licensing contracts of
enterprise-wide Licensing and that
changed the entire discourse that we
were able to have with our customers
suddenly we were selling business value
suddenly we were selling potential
suddenly we're selling aspirational
Concepts and we're able to think about
TCO we were able to think organization
wide and at databricks we've been going
through the same thing inside of our
organization we used to be an
organization that spoke to our customers
about committed contracts
how much data breaks will you need over
a period of Time how do we get you to
commit to that contract and we will then
sell you that contract and you can
consume it over the next 12 months
consume it over the next 36 months in
order to do that you need to go to
market organization to support that and
effectively what we're talking about is
traditional Enterprise sales you want to
have an Enterprise sales organization
that will go in and that will inject as
much friction as they possibly can into
the process
to do two things to grow the deal size
and to defend the margins and defend the
pricing that you eventually get in front
in front of your customers and then at
the beginning of covid we decided to
change the whole company we said we're
not going to value that anymore we want
to be more customer obsessed and so we
pivoted the entire company to a
consumption model that's really
important right thinking about the
commercial construct you will have with
your customers is critical but at the
same time then we had to Pivot the
entire go to market organization because
where Enterprise sales is about
injecting friction like value
engineering or proof of Concepts or
business cases into the sales process
when you move to a consumption model
it's actually about removing friction
it's about doing exactly the opposite
how do I enable my customers how do I
build capacity through partner
ecosystems how do I make the buying
experience focus on starting rather than
on committing how do I do things
completely differently and we had to
think really really hard about that and
so I think the lesson there is make sure
that you think a lot about commercial
structures but then you build a go to
market organization
that actually is invested in and
facilitating that commercial structure
for your customer
from there
I was actually sent up into this part of
the world and I spent quite a few years
up in this part of the world in
Singapore building out southeast Asia as
as an organization for uh for VMware
you're thinking now about how do I move
into new countries how do I go and take
on a market of 8 10 12 countries
and what we realized was that country
maturity models are really important
it's not enough to to take the advice of
typically Silicon Valley based VC
companies and say well build a
productivity model around hiring sales
people assign productivity to sales
people and scale your organization in
that way because it turns out
the Earth is not flattened that way I
think the best way to think about
building country maturity models
is to go back to Jeffrey Moore is to go
back and think about the work the work
that was done in that seminal book
Crossing the chasm I hope you've all
read it if you hasn't haven't you really
want to do that it's necessary in every
new market that you work in to go in and
soften the beach
to create the conditions where not just
product Market fit but where demand is
actually starting to be facilitated and
to do that you want to expire expend as
little energy as possible as little
investment as possible and you want to
learn as much as possible and so we came
up with this model where we said we're
going to start
with something called a minimum
Deployable unit as our country expansion
model what is the smallest amount of
resource that is cross-functional that
is specific to that market that will
allow us to see success in that market
that we can invest and put into that
market to start softening to the beach
to to create those few first few
Partnerships to set up some kind of
resale mechanism if we require it to
think about acquiring those first
Lighthouse customers and to really start
to get things moving so that we can then
start to cross the chasm then we can
then start to make big bets on that
market it's warmed up it's prepared it's
ready to go and you cannot miss that
step
once you've done that though you earn
the right to move to the next stage and
to to invest in something called a
market making unit a market making unit
is suddenly no longer just one
salesperson one solution architect maybe
a partner manager or a business
development representative a
market-making unit is you now saying we
fixed the demand side we have all of the
demand signals coming from a particular
Market let's Now work on the supply side
let's make sure that in that market
say Singapore we have all of the the
supply side capabilities that our
customers are going to need in order to
be successful we know that they're going
to demand our products so now we're
going to turn up with the right
leadership we're going to turn up with
support we're going to turn up with
Professional Services we're going to
turn up with training whatever it is
that you decide
you're going to need for your business
but going through that market maturity
model
and thinking about how you can start
with a minimum Deployable unit and then
thinking about how you can move to a
market making unit will save you a lot
of time and and hopefully save you a lot
of money and so
from there
from there I went down and uh took a
role building the uh the business for
Amazon web services in um
in Australia it was a brand new business
I think we did 10 million dollars in our
first year running a few websites in in
2011 for Amazon web services and we were
fairly crude in the way that we thought
about our customers I I I'm sure many of
you think about customers as Enterprise
customers and then maybe you think about
mid-market and then maybe you think
about commercial customers
and it wasn't a really thoughtful thing
and and the reason that that was
dangerous the reason that that was the
wrong way to behave is because you have
to sell to customers
in the way that they want to be sold to
and you have to let them Buy in a way
that they want to buy now don't get me
wrong I'm not suggesting that you should
infinitely segment your customer base
because you shouldn't segment your
customer base at all if all of your
customers are uniform but if there are
some valid discrepancies in the way that
your customers wanted to be sold to you
should acknowledge that and you should
segment your customers really really
thoughtfully so in our case
at Amazon web services we said okay well
we have Enterprise customers and we have
mid-market customers and we have
commercial customers turns out we were
totally wrong
it turns out that what we had was
Enterprises and then we had this other
group of customers called startups and
digital natives who were kind of these
successful startups and they wanted a
completely different sales motion they
wanted a highly technical motion they
wanted to do bottom-up selling they
wanted to create these Democratic
these Democratic movements and their
organizations maybe they wanted to be
sold to on slack and on various chat
forums as opposed to directly and face
to face and the last thing they would
need is a proposal whereas the
Enterprise customers they wanted all of
those things
we also worked out that we had a whole
group of customers called isvs that
there were software companies who wanted
to build their technology on our cloud
and as these they needed to be sold to
differently as well because what did
they care about they cared about go to
market how can we help them not just
host their applications
that actually help them go to market on
our platform and so we resegmented our
whole business
and it changed the way that we worked
with customers it really transformed our
business significantly and now today AWS
thinks about the market purely in those
terms because that's what the customer
obsessed thing to do is
and at databricks we've done similar
things so databricks now we work
specifically with digital Natives and
startups in one way we have specific
teams for that we have mechanisms that
we've invested in to support them and
then we work with our Enterprise
customers in a totally different way and
never the two will meet
from
from there I got a rare opportunity to
think about how we could build a global
accounts Organization for Amazon web
services and by a global accounts
organization I mean an organization that
was just dedicated to selling to one
type of customer which were the top 75
largest multinationals in the world
think Unilever and shell and Chevron Rio
Tinto and so on how do you go and build
an organization that will become expert
at doing this and you know once we
decided we were going to create this
segment and we were going to make a big
investment here the thing that I
realized was that understanding
the journey that those customers would
go on with Amazon web services was
really critical because if we didn't
understand the customer Journey
then we wouldn't have the slightest idea
about how to go and start them on that
Journey
and how to then go and facilitate them
through the various steps and so we
spent a huge amount of time thinking
about that in fact
it was totally mystifying to me I I
would work with a customer like Philips
in the Netherlands and I would spend
time helping them into the cloud and
moving them through these various phases
and I would try and work out what are
the patterns that we're seeing with
these customers and I couldn't find any
consistency
any consistency at all until I worked
out that the customer Journey
it doesn't have to be this linear thing
customers don't need to start at the
beginning
and then finish at the end of this
customer Journey there can be different
parts there can be different points of
entry and if you're smart you'll think
deeply about that and you'll work out
what those are so it turned out that for
these large multinationals there were
actually two different points of Entry
two completely different paths that they
would go on one would be this path of
innovation
how I can how can I go and spend time
with the business how can I help them
understand
that we could facilitate some kind of
dividend to their top line revenue if
they were able to to to innovate faster
if they were able to build products
faster or affect some kind of efficiency
dividend by digitizing a business
process
and these discussions were almost always
Innovation driven they were almost
always with the line of business but
that was only a small piece of the
puzzle for us the other piece for a
particular multinational was how do we
help you go and retire the huge amounts
of technical debt that you have in your
organization through migration
and modernization that was the stuff
that no one was actually really
interested in but it was the vast amount
of effort and it was where the vast
amount of money was and for that you
didn't spend time with the business and
you didn't talk about Innovation you
spent time with the it teams and the
global cios and you go and spoke to you
went and spoke to them about how they
could save money and drive resilience
and remove Risk by retiring the
technical debt inside of their
organization and as soon as we worked
this out as soon as we worked out that
there were two customer Journeys and and
mapped out exactly what they were
we could then start to say well how can
we affect that and the the second
message I'd have for you on this the
second area that um that I learned as
part of that was if you're going to be
customer obsessed in the way that you
work in the market you need to let
customer informed tactics actually drive
the strategy you need to be constantly
experimenting everywhere in your in your
Global go to market organization
and you need to be running experiments
with the customer getting feedback from
the customers and saying well does that
work and if it does work if it drives
the outcome that they're after
which is the outcome that you're after
that you then you need to be saying how
do we scale that
so let me give you some examples of that
we we said that we needed to help the
businesses of these large multinationals
innovate faster that was part of our
customer Journey well we spent a lot of
time
with that customer Phillips that I
mentioned and we we started to talk to
them about how we could maybe take some
of the mechanisms that existed within
Amazon around Innovation how do we build
new products how do we go through
ideation processes Amazon is very famous
for this process called the prfaq where
you effectively write the press release
and an FAQ of a of something you're
going to build even before you start to
build it so that you can start to think
about the effect it's going to have on
your customers we took Philips through
that process they loved it they started
building new products they started
building those products more importantly
on Amazon web services
and so we said hey let's scale that if
they're getting a great outcome let's
scale it everywhere and so we built our
teams right around the world whose only
job it was was to help these large
multinationals 88
innovate build products build prototypes
on top of Amazon web services so that we
could remain relevant to their business
but at the same time we needed to think
about that second part of the customer
Journey we need to to think about how we
could help it teams remediate their
technical debt and so we created this
methodology called 50 and 50. we spend
time with the CIO of Honeywell and we
said hey rather than spend a huge amount
of time planning a migration and
starting to work through this migration
and maybe in two years we'll have
migrated assets and we'll know what
we're doing
why don't we just start today and why
don't we say in the next 50 days from a
standing start with no skills on your
side of the fence we will migrate 50
applications and in doing that
we will um we will build all the skills
that you need all the capabilities that
you need inside of your teams to migrate
the next five thousand
it worked we got 50 applications
migrated in 50 days we built out all the
skills and so we said okay let's let
those tactics
now inform our strategy we built an
entire program around that rolled it out
globally and we helped hundreds of large
multinationals migrate thousands and
thousands of applications to the public
cloud
once I was done with that I came back to
Asia Pacific and I I took a job
running
um running quite a large organization
running Amazon web services across Asia
Pacific and uh and Japan at that point
we were talking about thousands of folks
in the team we were talking about
billions of dollars in in revenue and
you're starting to think then
about how do I make investments how do I
make sure that I'm getting as much bang
for my buck as I possibly can as I hire
another 500 people as I as I rarely
start to scale this organization
and what we learned was you need to be
incredibly thoughtful about
understanding the difference between
linear and non-linear Investments do not
make this a game of linear expansion do
not say hey I'm going to have a
productivity metric that I sign to sales
people in my organization I'm going to
All I'm going to just keep hiring sales
people as I want to scale revenue and
one day
end up like so many of the technology
companies that you've seen over the last
couple of months who just start laying
people off that is a terrible decision
to make think about how you can make as
many Investments off your balance sheet
by partnering by by building by
investing in Specialists who can act as
as the Batters for the catchers that
you've invested into the marketplace who
are your sales people think about the
mix think about how you can make these
non-linear investment so that you know
hopefully when you see huge success in
your business you don't just wake up one
day and think gee I have ten thousand
sales people and everything that goes
with ten thousand sales people in your
organization
who do I need to start laying off super
important that that you get that balance
right
I think the final thing I'd say
about scaling field organizations is you
have to have strong beliefs
and then when you have those strong
beliefs you need to find a way of
communicating them across an
organization in such a way that as it
scales and as it gets bigger and bigger
and bigger the the decisions that are
founded in those strong beliefs
can actually be made without you being
in the room
and the best way that I've found to do
that is to write tenets is to write down
what those beliefs are
and make sure that everybody has access
to them
so that they can use those to ground the
decisions they made and actually I I
went and found out hey what were the
tenants that I used or at least what was
some of the tenants that I used for for
scaling the field organization at Amazon
web services four or five years ago
it doesn't really matter what you think
of these tenants it doesn't matter if
you agree with them the thing that
matters is that you have these beliefs
that they are written down and that
you've spent time crafting them and that
you've then distributed them broadly
across your organization so that
everyone can buy into it
so
I guess finally we need to think about
how we bring this all together
how do we actually scale a a global or a
a really large field organization across
Asia or around the world
we've we've said we're going to
understand
what's going to drive my growth we said
hey we've got a large Tam it needs
disruption we're going to disrupt that
market because we're on the right side
of History because we've got the right
technology we we know
that this is something that we should
back that we should invest in this we're
going to build a large organization
around it and if you do
I guess the summary of of my advice to
you is first of all
build a commercial model that is best
for your customers but if you do that
make sure you have a go to market
approach that is specific to that
commercial model otherwise it's just not
going to work don't bring Enterprise
sales techniques to consumption
businesses because the two are actually
diametrically opposed to one another
think about country maturity models as
you start to move out of your own
country
go and read crossing the chasm and think
okay how do I go and work with those
initial innovators in a market how do I
inform my experience and soften the
beach but then how do I cross the chasm
and move it to a conversation around
building up the supply side capabilities
that I need to ensure a fantastic
customer experience in the markets that
I serve
segment your business only if you have
to
but you have to if you have customers
who want to be sold to in different ways
that's a really really important thing
otherwise that is going to start to
constrain your growth
think deeply about the customer journey
and then develop tactics that can inform
the strategy that you will bring to bear
helping customers start that journey and
facilitating their process and progress
along that Journey
invest in not just linear resources
otherwise prepared to do large-scale
layoffs if you're successful at any
point in time but invest in non-linear
resources as well so that the go to
market organization that you have to a
large extent does not set on the balance
sheet of your company it'll be the best
thing you've ever done
and then finally use tenants to drive
velocity make sure that the beliefs that
you have are strong are well understood
and that uh and that those tenants are
your guiding path as you build out what
I hope will be a really really
significant go to market organization
so thank you very much for your time
today just a couple of things if uh if
folks wanted to find out more about data
bricks I think for this crowd in
particular I would suggest having a look
at the digital native Council that that
we host for our startup and digital
native customers who want to think how
do I use data
to actually build my company how do I
use data to build my SAS platforms and
the way that atlassian for example in in
apj have done over the last few years
we'd love to have you participate in
this forum
looks like I have 13 seconds if anybody
wanted to ask any questions and if you
do I I've been instructed that you need
to use the mics thank you so much yeah
my question in our consumption based
models is really that different when you
have a minimum commit or an anchor price
as compared to a traditional
subscription
I'm I think a consumption-based model
implies that you don't have a minimum
commit that you're trying to make the
experience as frictionless as possible
so if you look at the databricks context
you can go to the AWS Marketplace today
and you can just start using data bricks
in a purely consumption model
because we want to try and remove as
much of the friction as we possibly can
from that experience yeah but people
always complain about the you know end
of the month bill they get for AWS and
other things how do we make sure we
avoid those kind of conversations
that's a whole different discussion I
mean
consumption economics is the way to go
right consumption models are the best
thing for your customers full stop the
problem that you've got though is
there's a big difference between
only pay for what you use and only pay
for what you need
and you do have to end up as an
organization investing quite a lot of
money and helping customers move from
one to the other and that that's another
half an hour that we could spend talking
about that
yes sir hi
um
here we are
um I have a question it's about
consumption models as well but it's to
do with um is selling selling something
that's consumable digitally but also as
part of what you're selling you have a
physical product and you may have come
across this with customers and things
but I thought I'd throw this one out
there so if you apply the consumption
type model into you know physical
product sensors if you like out there in
the field yeah
um using uh Cloud digital service that
you can use a consumption model on the
physical side has a different story to
tell
because you know you might have to get a
lot of units physical units out into a
field which come at cost and the
consumption of that is different to a
digital consumption so yeah have you
seen that handled anywhere or I have
yeah I mean again go and look at the uh
the Amazon business right so AWS has
physical devices yeah they have
something called snow ball snowball
snowball yeah snowball I think it is
which is a device that they'll actually
send you it turns up and you can then
put your data onto it and send it back
to them and they upload it to the cloud
that's a physical device yeah but the
customer doesn't care that it's a
physical device what the customer cares
about is that it's a service it's a
service that's facilitating me in a
massively secure way getting my data up
into the cloud yep so
that's what you have to build the
commercial model around not around the
fact that hey I'm investing in a
physical device and somehow somebody
needs to pay for that physical device so
think about the problem you're solving
think about the service you're providing
the customer and build the model all
around that
foreign
[Music]